# hw06 grading

| Points      | Description | |
| ----------- | ----------- |-|
|  2/2 | Project 
|  5/5 | Questions
|  4/4 | PREEMPT_RT
|  2/2 | Plots to 500 us
|  5/5 | Plots - Heavy/Light load
|  2/2 | Extras
| 20/20 | **Total**

*My comments are in italics. --may*

 | *Mainline is the main kernel tree.*

## Watch then answer these questions
(From Sophia Harrison, 2023)

Answers:
1. Julia Cartwright works at National Instruments.
2. PREEMPT_RT is a patch that aims at making all code running in kernel mode preemptible, which is the ability to stop whatever the CPU is running to run another task. 
3. Mixed criticality is when you have both real-time critical tasks and non-time critical tasks. 
4. Drivers can misbehave whenever you have a lot of register writes back-to-back without a read, because the CPU cannot dispatch interrupts until it gets the read response back, because they are waiting for buffers to propagate down to the device and back, which causes delay due to architectural restraints.
5. Delta is the time between an event and the application. This delta is made up of the time it takes for an irq to dispatch and the time it takes for the task to be scheduled.
6. Cyclictest is test that accurately and repeatedly measures the difference between  thread’s intended wake-up time and the time at which it actually wakes up, which provides statistics about the system’s latencies.
7. Figure 2 shows the time it takes for a thread to actually sleep minus the intended duration of sleep for the thread (latency), data collected from cyclictest. Figure 2 is a histogram showing the latencies for preempt in mainline and also preempt_rt, where we can see preempt_rt has a better distribution more suitable for real time application. 
8. Dispatch latency is the amount of time it takes between the external hardware firing to the relevant thread being woken up. Scheduling latency is the amount of time it takes from the scheduler being made aware of a high priority task needing to be run to the CPU being given the actual task to be executed. 
9. Mainline is the main kernel tree. This is where all new kernel features are introduced. 
10. A non-critical irq is keeping the external event from starting in Figure 3, the external event cannot be scheduled until the irq is finished executing.
11. The external event in Figure 4 can start sooner because it uses the preempt_rt patch which allows forced IRQ threading. This means that when an IRQ is fired only a little code is actually run, just enough to wake up threads that will execute their respective handlers, allowing the high priority external event to start sooner.